hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day today I'm at the
tambopata Research Center it's run by
rainforest expeditions and we're going
to calculate the force that a
grasshopper uses to jump with the first
thing we're going to do is we're going
to weigh the grasshopper
so this envelope we're going to zero our
scale so and then put the grasshopper in
the envelope so you know force equal
mass times acceleration so we are going
to figure out the mass of the
grasshopper you want to use this
high-speed camera calculate the
acceleration the grasshopper so how much
does our weight we weren't yeah we were
went one gram that sound right mr.
entomologist sounds about right all
right now we got to measure a length of
his leg so if you measure any feature
that we could get will do this in
millimeters
that's the Long's anyone on the back yep
so that is called the tibia just like
yes it's a tibia just like us yeah
so what do you have - looks like 15
millimeters yeah
got it it was fast I go home
damn ready got it of all year alright so
now we're going to calculate what his
acceleration rate was we're going to
basically plot how fast he went based on
that measurement from his femur and his
tibia right yeah all right we'll figure
out how much force a grasshopper leg has
I recorded two high-speed videos of
grasshoppers hopping in the Amazon I'm
going to calculate the acceleration of
one and if you so choose you can
calculate the acceleration for the
second one only take a couple minutes
and I know you're smart enough the first
thing you're going to do is download
some software called tracker links below
all you do is get tracker and you import
a video file from the grasshopper
hopping once you have it in there now we
have to set our scale factor all you do
is wait till the grasshoppers hopping so
that his leg is stretched out in the
plane that the camera is looking at once
you get to that point you simply create
the ratio by clicking the gauge length
of his leg and setting it to 15
millimeters after that you go back to
the initial frame and at this point
we're going to select a track point
about his eye the reason we use the eyes
because it has good contrast with the
background at this point we can set the
track point and begin to play the file
and create a velocity versus time curve
of the grasshopper hopping out of the
screen once we have this velocity versus
time curve all we have to do is create
the slope of this line and that's
acceleration derivatives simply means
slope of the tangent line that's what
we've done here the derivative of
velocity is acceleration so once we have
this slope of the line you can see right
there the acceleration of this
grasshopper is just over 400 meters per
second squared now all we have to do is
use force equal mass times acceleration
and you can calculate the force that a
grasshopper pushes against stuff when it
hops the way to say and think about this
we calculated the force that his legs
were putting out based on jumping off of
a rigid surface what if he's on grass I
mean he's a grasshopper after all that
grass or a leaf or something would have
to push away because it has to give it's
not rigid that means the velocity in
which he accelerates away when he hops
is directly affected by the rigidity of
whatever he's hopping off of I have
never thought about that
you probably haven't either anyway so
grasshoppers literally live and die
based on what they're hopping away from
that's amazing okay if you're not too
lazy go grab that tracker software get
that second hop video file from the
video description calculate the
instantaneous velocity of that
grasshopper as he hops out the screen
back out the acceleration and then from
there calculate the force on the
grasshopper legs should be pretty fun
leave me a comment tell me what value
you get see if it compares to the first
number we got ready for grasshopper
launch okay here you go five four three
two one go try it on the floor of the
spot set it up okay this week on smarter
every day I'm gonna recommend an
audible.com which is wicked bugs by Amy
Stewart
you know audible is a sponsor for
smarter every day so you'd help smarter
every day out if you go download a free
audiobook at audible.com/smarter anyway
this one's about all kinds of crazy bugs
and how they've interacted with humans
throughout years you may recognize some
of the names the bugs from smarter every
day
brown recluse Brazilian Wandering Spider
things like that anyway audible.com
slash smarter you'll help smarter every
day and you'll get a free audiobook it's
really a win-win are you ready for lunch
okay ready thinking you get the seal on
this time five four three two one go
that was good anyway shouldn't be
calculating the acceleration of
grasshoppers up right now anyway I'll be
like hum slash smarter thank you very
much for your support getting smarter
every day have a good one